---
title: "RISE: A Retrieval-Augmented Generation Enhanced Immersive System for Education"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2026-WWW
excerpt: 'We have developed an immersive education system based on RAG, MCP, and virtual digital humans.'
venue: 'Companion Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference'
date: 2026-04-13
paperurl: 'https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3774905.3793107'
bibtexurl: "/files/chen2026rise.bib"
citation: 'Chen, G., Tang, H., Wei, Y., Wang, Y., Zhang, H., Hou, Y., Zheng, M., & Huang, J. (2026). <i>RISE: A Retrieval-Augmented Generation Enhanced Immersive System for Education</i>. In <i>Companion Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2026</i>, 85–88.'
---

The rapid development of intelligent education has brought new opportunities to the educational industry. However, current systems still face challenges such as limited hardware resources, weak interactivity, and insufficient immersion. To address these issues, we propose Rise (Retrieval-Augmented Generation Enhanced Immersive System for Education with LLMs), an adaptive and immersive learn-
ing system designed to construct adaptive and immersive educational environments. Rise integrates Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), Model Context Protocol (MCP), and Digital Human (DH) technologies to provide high-quality, personalized educational experiences. Deployed on a lightweight web platform, it ensures accessibility even under hardware constraints and offers key functions including learning analytics, interactive Q&A, immersive classrooms, and attention monitoring. Beyond its technical contributions, Rise demonstrates strong social and educational value. By enabling immersive cultural and contextual learning experiences, it helps students from geographically or economically constrained regions access diverse educational resources and global cultural scenarios. The lightweight deployment promotes educational equity, while personalized interaction fosters learner motivation and inclusiveness. Rise represents a practical step toward next-generation intelligent education that unites technological advancement with social impact.
